I want you to imagine what a
breakthrough this was for women who were
victims of violence in the 1980s they
would come into the emergency room what
the police would call a lover's quarrel
and I would see a woman who was beaten I
would see a broken nose and a fractured
wrist and swollen eyes and as activists
we would take our Polaroid camera we
would take her picture we would wait 90
seconds and we would give her the
photograph and she would then have the
evidence she needed to go to court we
were making what was invisible visible
I've been doing this for 30 years I've
been part of a social movement that has
been working on ending violence against
women and children and for all those
years I've had an absolutely passionate
and sometimes not popular belief that
this violence is not inevitable that it
is learned and if it's learned it can be
unlearned and it can be prevented
why do I believe this because it's true
it is absolutely true between 1993 and
2010 domestic violence among adult women
in the United States has gone down by
64% and that is great news
64% now how did we get there our eyes
were wide open 30 years ago women were
beaten they were stalked they were raped
and no one talked about it there was no
justice and as an activist that was not
good enough and so step one on this
journey is we organized and we created
this extraordinary underground network
of amazing women who opened shelters and
if they didn't open a shelter they
opened their home so that women and
children could be safe and you know what
else we did we had bake sales we had car
washes and we did everything we could do
to fundraise and then at one point we
said you know it's time that we went to
the federal government and asked them to
pay for these extraordinary services
that are saving people's lives right and
so step number two we knew we needed to
change the laws and so we went to
Washington and we lobby for the first
piece of legislation and I remember
walking through the halls of CAP the US
Capitol and I was in my 30s and my life
had purpose and I couldn't imagine that
anybody would ever challenge this
important piece of legislation
I was probably thirty and naive but I
heard about a congressman who had a very
very different point of view do you know
what he called this important piece of
legislation he called it the take the
fun out of marriage act the take the fun
out of marriage act ladies in
gentlemen that was in 1984 in the United
States and I wish I had Twitter ten
years later after lots of hard work we
finally passed the Violence Against
Women Act which is a life-changing act
that has saved so many lives thank you I
was proud to be part of that work and it
changed the laws and it put millions of
dollars into local communities and you
know what else it did it collected data
and I have to tell you I'm passionate
about data in fact I am a data nerd I'm
sure there are a lot of data nursing and
I am a data nerd and the reason for that
is I want to make sure that if we spend
a dollar that the program works and if
it doesn't work we should change your
plan and and I also want to say one
other thing we are not going to solve
this problem by building more jails or
by even building more shelters it is
about economic empowerment for women it
is about healing kids who are hurt and
it is about prevention with a capital P
and so step number three on this journey
we know if we're going to keep making
this progress we're going to have to
turn up the volume we're gonna have to
increase the visibility and we're gonna
have to engage the public and so knowing
that we went to the advertising Council
and we asked them to help us build a
public education campaign and we looked
around the world to Canada and Australia
and Brazil and parts of Africa and we
took this knowledge and we built the
first national public education campaign
called there's no excuse for domestic
violence take a look at one of our spots
where's dinner well I thought you'd be
home a couple of hours ago and I would
everything away
what is this Pizza you had just called
me I was later ready it's a piece
honey please don't be so loud please
don't
[Music]
as we were in the process of releasing
this campaign Oh Jay Simpson was
arrested for the murder of his wife and
her friend we learned that he had a long
history of domestic violence the media
became fixated the story of domestic
violence went from the back page but
actually from the know page to the front
page our ads blanketed the airwaves and
women for the first time started to tell
their stories movements are about
moments and we seize this moment and let
me just put this in context before 1980
do you have any idea how many articles
were in the New York Times on domestic
violence I'll tell you a hundred and
fifty-eight and in the 2000s over seven
thousand we were obviously making a
difference but we were still missing a
critical element so step four we needed
to engage men we couldn't solve this
problem with fifty percent of the
population on the sidelines and I
already told you I'm a data nerd
national polling told us that men felt
indicted and not invited into this
conversation so he wondered how can we
include men how can we get men to talk
about violence against women and girls
and a male friend of mine pulled me
aside and he said you want men to talk
about violence against women and girls
men don't talk
I apologize to the men in the audience I
know you do but he said you know what
they do do they do talk to their kids
they talked to their kids as parents as
coaches and that's what we did we met
men where they were at and we built a
program and then we had this one event
that stays in my heart forever where a
basketball coach was talking to a room
filled with male athletes and men from
all walks of life and he was talking
about the importance of coaching boys
into men and changing the culture of the
locker room and giving men the tools to
have healthy relationships and all of a
sudden he looked at the back of the room
and he saw his daughter and he called
out his daughter's name Michaela and he
said Michaela come up here and she's
nine years old and she was kind of shy
and she got up there and he said sit
down next to me
she sat right down next to him he gave
her this big hug and he said people ask
me why I do this work I do this work
because I'm her dad and I don't want
anyone ever to hurt her and as a parent
I get it I get it knowing that there are
so many sexual assaults on college
campuses that are so widespread and so
underreported we've done a lot for adult
women we've got to do a better job for
our kids we just do we have to we've
come a long way since the days of the
Polaroid technology has been our friend
the mobile phone is a global game
changer for the empowerment of women and
Facebook and Twitter and Google and
YouTube and all the social media helps
us organize and tell our story in a
powerful way and so those of you in this
audience who have helped build those
applications in those platforms as an
organizer I say thank you very much
really I clap for you
I'm the daughter of a man who joined one
club in his life the optimist club can't
make that one up and it is his spirit
and his optimism that is in my DNA I
have been doing this work for over 30
years and I am convinced now more than
ever in the capacity of human beings to
change I believe we can bend the arc of
human history toward compassion and
equality and I also fundamentally
believe and passionately believe that
this violence does not have to be part
of the human condition and I ask you
stand with us as we create futures
without violence for women and girls and
men and boys everywhere thank you very
much
[Applause]